# 10255-GOIcounting
nice number

also
If Diogenes is in the pot, and in the game he never comes out of the pot, and he doesn't have a model for his legs, we can assume that the pot is, in fact, and organic part of Diogenes and that he is in fact not human. This is also supported by the fact that the pot changes color. Metal cannot change color so consistently and evenly, but organic tissue can. Perhaps Diogenes is nothing but some multicellular organism with an armored abdomen (referred from this point on as "species" ). As no visual ways of reproduction are obvious, it is safe to assume that this species reproduces asexually, maybe through budding a new pot off of the base pot. Though this makes sense, we never see it happen in game so it is less likely. I more plausible theory I came up with however was that the more gold the specie's pot gets, the more ready it is to reproduce. Now, stay with me here because it gets a bit complicated: As the species successfully reaches the top of the mountain each time, it creates a very thin layer of gold around its once black armor. Now this keeps happening each time the game is beaten, but instead of the black pot being replaced with gold, the gold is merely added to the black. But how does this relate to this specie's reproduction, you ask? Well, at the 50th win, there is enough material built up from each successive climb to create a completely gold pot and a regular black pot. When this species reaches the credits the 50th time, the gold layers are separated from the original black layers and 2 new pots are formed, one gold and one black. In the newly formed gold pot, there is DNA and stem cells that, with time, the species is able to form a new upper body and continue the life cycle. This is how the species must reproduce: the aim of Getting Over It is to create more Diogeneses. If you don't beat the game 50 times, you have not enabled the species to reproduce and you have failed.
The gold pot is actually just a newly formed Diogenes which hasn't grown a body yet. The cutscene at the beginning shows this growth. Contrary to popular belief, he does "come out of the pot," he grows out of it. This would also explain why it seems like there is not enough space in the pot to hold his whole body. 
The reason he goes back to the lake after every run is because the water in the lake is his only source of energy. In space, he can only create a certain amount of gold cells without losing energy (humans cannot create more cells/undergo mitosis without energy). This is why after making as many gold cells as he can he must return. The water is not actually water, but more a fluid net of protein with glucose molecules stranded throughout. This is also why he drops water out of his pot, he is carrying this energy with him to the top of the mountain to make more gold cells. And the space above... well, space, is the only place with the correct conditions to create gold cells. In the human body, enzymes only function at a certain temperature range, and if they get too hot or too cold, they denature and cannot perform their functions. Diogenes functions similarly: he needs to get to space because that is the only place where his enzymes can break down the "water" and create energy to make new gold cells. 
The hammer is part of Diogenes, and as you can see, it is necessary to his climbing and never leaves his hand, so the hammer must be an adaptation of the species, a third appendage if you will. 
The trash Bennett talks of are the things the old Diogeneses created. The game takes place after a huge disaster where most of the species was wiped out, and this particular Diogenes who survived is trying to save the species. This Disaster is more likely something of a large flood or chemical issue, as we know the Diogenes species is immune to all blunt force. The species can, however, die of drowning, or at least black out.
But then what is Jim? Jim is a lost wizard of a forgotten age. He was created before the Diogenes species became to power and was there when they all got wiped out. His immense power is fading however; he can only manage to sustain himself in hiding from the sun. He laughs as you greet him, perhaps in him knowing that all your efforts are futile and perhaps impressed that you can do what he cannot. He is the b-character, the b-media Bennett references, still there but not touchable in this age, forgotten in context and the pile of other things.
At first, Diogenes had a hard time getting to the top where he could reproduce, but after a while he gains strength and confidence and with each successive run he gains gold cells which help him along his journey. This is also why a Diogenes with all gold cells are very skilled at getting to space. An offspring of Diogenes naturally born with these cells can get to the top of the mountain easier as it has a natural instinct, new DNA from controlled mutations at the top. These mutations may also be the reason these cells are gold. The more gold cells a Diogenes has, they can generally get to the top more efficiently. The pot does not get, or at least look more gold is because when an already gold Diogenes creates more gold cells, there is no contrast between the layers of cells.
